Hi friends
In this video we are going to learn
Why do we need functions
So basically we can define a function as a group of statements that together perform a
specific task
See an example
We have a function named check which checks whether
The given number is zero positive or negative so it
has a task to do
Now let us see why we need functions. Functions improve
modularity and code reusability
So what do we mean by improving modularity? Suppose
we have a very large programme then it is very
difficult to maintain it
But if we divide it into small separate modules then
it is very easy to maintain them
Also suppose some error is occurring in our programme
Then we can easily debug the programme
If a particular module is not working
We can test and debug that specific model rather than
the entire programme here
If module one is not working as expected we can
simply correct it
Also we can have many programmers developing different modules simultaneously
Next let us discuss about code reusability
Suppose we need to get two numbers from the user
and check whether the given number is positive or negative
so we can develop the code like this
But here we are repeating the same block of code
again
And this is not a good programming practice
So we can put the block of code in a
function and we can call that function whenever we want
Like this here
The main logic is in the function named check and
we are reusing the same logic without writing the
same piece of code again
We can also place the same function in a common
header file
Here we are including the function check in util.h
And then we can re use it many
times by including the valid path of that common header
file like this
So that is how it is supporting code reusability
So that's all and thank you for watching this video